Remote Method Invocation Java SE 6 Server

Erik Dominikus
2012-11-26

Standalone Server

    Quick Start

        To start the server,
    
            sh start.sh NAME HOST PORT CLASS...
    
        To stop, use JConsole to invoke the MXBean's "stop" method.
        See the "Management" section below for more details.
        If you don't really care, just send SIGINT (Ctrl-C).
    
        NAME must be unique.
        This name will be a part of the name of the MXBean instance
        registered to local MBean server.
    
        HOST is the host name or IP address of the interface
        on which the server will listen.
        Put "0.0.0.0" to listen on all interfaces.
    
        PORT is the IP port on which the server will listen.
        We recommend a value not less than 1024.
    
        CLASS... is zero or more names of your servlet classes.
        The first class corresponds to the class of object 0,
        the second class to the class of object 1, and so on.
        Each class must be a public class
        and must have a public zero-argument constructor.
        
        Example:
        
            sh start.sh test localhost 1024 id.web.edom.rmi.example.EchoServlet

    Invocation

        java -cp CLASSPATH
            -Dname=NAME
            -Dport=PORT
            [-Dhost=HOST]
            [-DmaxConnections=MAXCONNECTIONS]
            [-Dtimeout=TIMEOUT]
            id.web.edom.rmi.server.RmiServer
            NAME
            CLASS...

        NAME is the name that will registered to local MBean server.
        See the "Management" section below.

        PORT is the Internet Protocol port to use.
        We recommend that the port be not less than 1024.

        HOST is the Internet Protocol address of the interface
        on which the server will accept incoming connections.
        Absence of this argument or a value of "0.0.0.0"
        means that the server will listen on all interfaces.

        MAXCONNECTIONS is the maximum number
        of simultaneous active connections.

        TIMEOUT is the transput timeout in milliseconds.
        If a connection is idle for at least this duration,
        that connection will be closed.

        CLASS... are zero or more servlet classes.

    Management

        The server registers a MXBean in the local MBean server.
        The name used to register that bean is
        "id.web.edom:type=RmiServer,name=NAME"
        where NAME is the name given in the command line.

        You can use JConsole to interact with that bean.
        Usually JConsole can be started
        by entering "jconsole" in the terminal.
        With JConsole, you can get some statistics such as uptime,
        or perform some operations such as stopping the server.

        Nevertheless, any JMX agent that can connect to the local MBean server should do.


    Memory Usage
    
        If

        F is the maximum frame size
        Q is the maximum queue length
        C is the maximum simultaneous open connections
        
        then the server should be provided at least F * Q * C bytes of memory.
        
        Example:
        
        F = 4 KiB
        Q = 4
        C = 65536
        
        requires at least 1 GiB.
        However, this is only for managing connections;
        the execution of methods require additional memory
        depending on the method.
        
        OutOfMemoryError will terminate the server.
